.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 2019 Ted Unangst
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate$
.Dt HONK 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm honk
.Nd federated status conveyance
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm honk
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Nm
utility processes status updates and other microblog activities.
This is the user manual.
For administration, see
.Xr honk 8 .
.Pp
This manual is very incomplete.
It'll get there eventually.
.Ss Following
In order to receive regular updates from other users, one must first follow them.
Begin at the
.Pa honkers
tab.
The
.Ar url
field is required.
Either of two forms are accepted, the user's handle (or webfinger) or their
ActivityPub actor URL.
The
.Ar name
field is optional and will be automatically inferred.
Examples:
.Dl @user@example.social
.Dl https://example.social/users/user
.Pp
.Pp
After following a fellow honker, they may be added to one or more
.Ic combos .
These are accessed via the
.Pa combos
tab and allow easy access to particular groupings.
The special combo name of one hyphen
.Sq -
will remove a honker's posts from the primary feed.
.Ss Viewing
The primary feed is accessed via the home tab.
It will contain posts from all followed honkers.
Posts mentioning the user, both followed and not, are collected under the
.Pa @me
tab.
.Pp
Individual honks contain a visual representation of the honker's ID,
their name, the activity (with a link back to origin), a link to the
parent post if applicable, and the convoy (thread) identifier.
Screenshot below.
.Pp
.Lk screenshot-honk.png screenshot of one honk
.Ss Honking
Begin by pressin button marked
.Dq it's honking time
to activate the honk form.
.Pp
One may attach a file to a post.
Images are automatically rescaled and reduced in size for federation.
A description, or caption, is encouraged.
Text files are also supported as attachments.
.Pp
One may also check in to a location.
The available fields, all optional, are
.Ar name ,
.Ar url ,
.Ar latitude ,
and
.Ar longitude .
By default, location data is rounded to approximately 1/500 decimal degree
accuracy.
Pressing the check in button a second time will refine this to more a
precise location.
.Pp
A limited subset of markdown is supported, including bold, italics, quotes,
and code blocks.
Mentioning a specfic user such as
.Pq @user@example.social
will send a copy of the message to them.
When replying, the author of the parent post is automatically mentioned.
.Pp
Threads from the tiny bird site may be included as quotes in a post via the
.Ar hoot
operator.
.Dl hoot: https://twitter.com/tedunangst/status/835172824734175234
.Pp
Custom emoji may included via colon wrapping
.Pq :hellsyeah: .
A meme (sticker, reaction gif) may be included with the
.Ar meme
operator.
.Dl meme: honk.mp4
A full list of emoji and memes may be found in the
.Pa funzone .
.Pp
There are no length restrictions, but remember, somebody is going to have
to read this noise.
When everything is at last ready to go, press the
.Dq it's gonna be honked
button.
.Ss zonkzone
Sometimes other users of the federation can get unruly.
The zonkzone can be of great use to restore order to one's timeline.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr honk 8
.Sh STANDARDS
.Pp
.Lk https://www.w3.org/TR/activitypub/ "ActivityPub"
.Pp
.Lk https://www.w3.org/TR/activitystreams-vocabulary/ "Activity Vocabulary"
.Sh HISTORY
Started March 2019.
.Sh AUTHORS
Ted Unangst.
.Sh CAVEATS
The ActivityPub standard is subject to interpretation, and not all
implementations are as enlightened as
.Nm .
.Sh BUGS
Only features.
